All right let's get acquainted with oDesk I would ask was the second freelancing site that I mentioned
I mentioned them second because they are second in size and also I think second in terms of priority
at least for me when I go and I start my search for a freelancer.
They are different than last but not by much.
If you follow tech news you will know that the oDesk and Elance actually had emerged relatively recently.
However they still operate to different products.
You can still go to Elance dot com and you still go to oDesk dot com.
So why would they merge and then keep to Web sites.
Well it might have to do with just the user base that they have.
But also I think it's that people go to oDesk for a different reason and they go to Elance oDesk focuses
a lot on per hour freelancing.
So they try to target businesses that are looking to hire someone indefinitely or so or to hire someone
say for a week or two weeks or three weeks or something like that oDesk similarly to freelancer was
a big venture capital company.
They raise something like $44 billion.
This is different than L.A. who raised in the 70s.
They have about 3.1 million freelancers on it.
So they're the second largest they're larger than Elance in that regard.
And every year they post about 3.6 million jobs which is number two is oil.
They're a little bit different than the land they charge 10 percent of plants was eight point seventy
five if you remember from the last lecture 10 percent just comes from the freelancer and they also make
money off of featured postings and additional kind of things you can purchase to increase the visibility
of your posting.
But once we actually get into it you'll notice that that's not exactly.
It's not really the case or they make a ton of money off of that.
They really only offer a couple things that you can upgrade for your listing appliances has a little
bit more.
Once you get to freelancer you'll notice they have an entirely different business model.
Otis by far though is the most profitable.
They make close to a billion dollars a year.
The reason why they're so profitable is because they focus on per hour labor.
And typically when you do per hour labor freelancers are going to bill a lot more money and oDesk is
going to collect a lot more on their fees.
So you will log in and I'll show you what the user interface looks like.
It is not wildly different than the other Web sites but you'll notice it has some as centricity to it.
It's probably the simplest in terms of a user interface.
However they really do put a focus on their team environment and I'll get to that in a second to show
you.
So as you can tell I don't particularly use oDesk very often.
I like to focus more on Lance and I like to focus more on freelancer but oDesk It's always nice to use
because you know if you're posting in L.A. or posting a freelancer you can always just copy and paste
the job posting you use to get to oDesk it's never They don't ask any questions.
The other two don't.
You can see that the
you can view all your job postings.
I have to go back in time to look at them because I don't have any open jobs right now.
But you can kind of see what this typically will look like.
Not really any different.
I use oDesk mainly for virtual assistance.
You can tell that or use it for things like bug control.
If I'm looking for a developer to come in to fix something and I don't know how long it's going to take.
Whenever you have bugs that's just the way it kind of goes you're not going to say fix this bug for
$200.
They have no idea if it's gonna take 2 hours or 14 hours.
So look at the posting user interface
so like ants it's pretty much the same.
You'll notice that you can take previous jobs and will repopulate for you if you want to.
As you notice these are mostly V.A virtual assistant tasks that I did that's pretty helpful.
They don't give you the templating versions that Elance gives you but at the same time I would typically
say that's not I don't mean that's not a big feature.
I always write my job descriptions custom.
I don't really need the extra help.
Maybe you do but regardless they don't give you that kind of structural support.
Same kind of system you're going to pick.
Generally the type of person you're looking for oDesk does have a very rich community in terms of they
have all sorts of different people doing different things you can get video specialist audio specialist
you can get legal you can get marketing companies that will charge on a per hour basis.
You really can do the whole comprehensive suite in terms of outsourcing on oDesk job titles very similar.
They actually limit the job posting your title a bit more than the others.
You can write a little bit more in the description but again like we said before doesn't really matter
because your specifications are going to put in a separate sheet outside of the job posting.
This is nice because you can just list out the skills you need works very similar to Elance day.
Yeah I mean they just limit you to how many times you can how many different things you can list out.
Nothing particularly new here.
You'll notice that the default option is hourly you pay by the hour.
Verify with the work diary.
The reason I say default is again because oDesk really really focuses on that.
They focus on the hourly wage worker and fix price is really kind of a secondary thing that they they
use hourly.
You'll notice where it says pay by project for a fixed price and it says requires detailed specs.
That is true.
One of the things of hourly workers is that if you know you just have a rough budget and you know your
specifications are not ready right now you can effectively hire someone per hour and then fill them
in as a go.
I don't think it's a good strategy because I think writing the specifications out front will give you
more accurate estimates and also get you more acquainted with your project.
But for whatever reason you want to do it the other way you can do it but you can notice here that it
kind of reminds you you don't have detailed specs.
Probably not going to work for a fixed price.
So we'll keep it at hourly.
You'll notice here this is essencia NSA Trinity with oDesk.
They ask what your estimated duration.
And you'll notice here that less than one week is the smallest.
Typically people on oDesk are hiring people for a couple weeks.
They really don't have people that do a lot of one off jobs where they work one day or two days or three
days.
It's usually something that goes on for quite a while.
The people that I've hired an oDesk they worked for a month or two months or something like that.
More than six months.
That's actually quite common you see job.
And this is effectively a job.
A lot of times and oDesk people post the six month contract jobs after the six months they actually
end up hiring the person.
So I know quite a few people who've gotten their developers from oDesk by using a long term kind of
contract system estimated workload.
And then you know this is pretty obvious full time meaning 40 hours a week part time meeting twenty
fifteen twenty five hours a week as needed just means it just depends.
It's not really a set workload.
Maybe you need someone to just take to respond to customer e-mails in an e-mail account or something
like that.
You don't know how many emails and or comments you say as needed.
Desired experience level.
This is actually quite helpful because you can say I'm looking for an entry level intermediate or expert
and depending on how complicated your application is you could pick you know expert or intermedia if
you're trying to save money by giving more detailed specs and keeping the actual development simple.
You can go at the entry level if you wanted to.
That's automatically going to filter out people that charge too much.
You're getting a lot of outsourcing offers where they charge five dollars an hour six dollars an hour
and you get an intermediate you're going to get outsourcing mixed with people who are junior developers
in your own country.
And you know again the outsourcers going are probably going to be like $10 $15.
Where are the junior developers in your country.
Probably like $20 $30 or 20 25 expert then you can really get into people who are charging $100 an hour
60 dollars an hour.
Those people really know their stuff.
Similar to L.A. You can choose your job exposure.
This is actually interesting and Odense oDesk they have a setting called only oDesk users can find this
job.
This is interesting meeting that if I come to your Web site and I'm not signed up as a freelancer I
cannot find your job.
So it's not going to show up on google it's not going to show up on the browsing section of the Web
site if someone just goes to the Web site and browse it.
That might be something you want to do if you want to keep the put the lid on kind of the promotion
of your application.
You know what too many people reading it.
That's something you can put my personal opinion is you want more people looking at your application
regardless unless you have some super secret that you really need to hide.
This only means that you're going to reduce the amount of bids you get by probably 60 percent.
Again here's another oDesk thing that's quite specific to them.
I want to hire one freelancer I want to I need to hire more than one on L.A. when you do this you would
hire one freelancer and then do what you would say is I want to keep hiring and then you can add more
here you can stay.
You could specified up front typically And you say need to hire more than one freelancer are you going
to get more bids.
That's just basic bidding psychology.
People are going to bid more because they think the likelihood of getting hired is much higher.
ODesk you'll notice the people who end up bidding they don't give the best kind of responses or bidding
details a lot of them will copy and paste which I think is kind of a shame considering that oDesk is
so focused on hourly wages that it seems like they should put more effort into you know being specific
as to why they're good at whatever job you're looking for or position or trying to fill because the
potential to make money on it is much larger.
Here you can see preferred qualifications.
You know that's just something that if you you can get into this.
This is where you kind of drill down on the ratings for freelancers.
At a minimum feedback score or you can say the freelancer type here is interesting you can say independent
or agency maybe really do want an agency.
There are a lot of benefits to working with an agency and there's a lot of benefits working with an
independent.
You might have a specific idea of what you want and you can actually say that one of the problems in
Odessa though is if I say independent Trust me I'll get a lot of agencies and if I say Agency I'll still
get a lot of independents.
So you still need to read the bids when people bid this one.
Minimum feedback score.
I mean the thing is that if they have below whatever that feedback score is you can self-select and
remove them.
I typically don't put this also because if I say minimum feedback score for someone can bid with a feedback
score of five.
And the reason they bid five is because they've only had one job and they got five stars.
That job was for 20 bucks.
So that doesn't really help me.
This is another thing on oDesk because they track hours and not fixed price projects as much.
Or what they'll do is get a fixed price project they'll convert that to ours.
You can actually say I want someone who has build on oDesk before and that just means that they're familiar
with oDesk they're responsible primarily you'll notice on the other web sites people kind of flake.
So if I said I wanted at least 100 hours billing that means that the people who are going to bid are
quite skilled or quite familiar with the service they use this quite often.
That means that they're not just someone who fishes on oDesk doesn't spend a lot of time on it.
I don't usually use this again because most freelancers bid on all three Web sites so I don't want to
limit limit it to the people who are primarily working on oDesk location very similar.
I'll show you later though.
You can when you search for freelancers you can search for much more specific details Englis level this
is a kind of goofy because it's self-assigned.
So if you know anyone who's bilingual a lot of times they exaggerate how fluent they are.
But if it's essentially it's self-assigned in this case you can say basic conversational fluent native
and it's you know I don't usually Again do that one.
You can tell very quickly in the bidding and I prefer to have more people bid on my project because
then that makes the project look like it's popular which brings in more bids.
So I don't try to get too specific up front.
You run the risk of just getting no bids whatsoever.
Cover letters.
This is a feature of oDesk when you post a job os treats this like it is a actual position.
So they call things interviews they call it cover letters you can add screening questions.
I do like this quite a bit.
Typically what I would like to add.
I like to add basic questions like you know so why did you apply those particular job wash experience
to you.
You think and that's really helpful because there they have to actually answer that question if they're
going to bid they're going to have to answer it.
They can't just give you some copy and paste a description on their bids so they can't avoid kind of
the crucial questions that you have that's really helpful.
Cover letter is not helpful at least in my experience because they're in a cover letter basically means
that they have to write a little bit saying why they're interested in what you do what you're asking
for and what their qualifications are.
Ninety nine point nine percent the time is just copy and pasted and it's just not useful so you just
have to end up reading more bulk and wasting more time and that's typically why I don't like it.
You can preview your posting.
I don't really know why.
Because it's not like you're worried about the design of your job posting.
Similarly you can save a draft if you want to.
Pretty much every system has that.
Drafts are helpful if you want to get all your thoughts out and come back later.
The thing is that primarily your job posting is what your main description body is.
So that's what you should work on in a separate word document.
I don't ever see the point in saving a draft.
The biggest thing on oDesk is their team feature.
And so like to even page the team feature is quite helpful if you're hiring someone who's per hour because
it will kind of keep them honest in terms of how much they're billing you how much they work.
So as you can see here I had hired two freelancers previously to do translations
this was quite a while ago and as you can tell I focus oDesk on virtual assistant tasks things like
for instance a translation I would need.
I don't want to charge per word per letter.
So I focused on just doing hourly.
But typically the way that these work is they have a work diary and the work diary will show you snapshots
or screenshots of how they've worked over time.
Since it's so old I can't really bring it up.
But the best way of describing it is they do screen shots of the person's screen every like I believe
it's every minute and you can set it to do separate intervals like every five minutes.
So when someone works on oDesk they have to agree to work on through the team management system that
they have that's different than ads that's different than freelancer.
They have to use that system.
You can elect for them not to use it but you might as well since everyone is pretty much acquainted
with it anyway.
The biggest difference with oDesk though is that they're going to screen shot every single interval
of time what they're going to screenshot the person's computer screen and that's mandatory.
Whereas Elance the work diary they enter it in themselves and it kind of tracks more like every time
they message you and every time they upload information oDesk really tracks it down to some really significant
details like how many clicks they make.
What are the words per minute when they type so a lot of times you have a typing or a data entry and
they'll literally record how fast they're typing on their keyboard and send that to you so you can see
if there's a dip.
And you can see if there are 10 of taking breaks or that's something you might want to take out of your
price.
It sounds a little micro-manager.
It can be and I don't necessarily use it every time but it's nice having that available.
If if it is something that you can consider useful you will notice see contracts like Lance oDesk will
manage your contracts for you.
But you can upload contracts if you want and they don't use it the same way Elance does in the U.S.
you can upload your own contract.
And how does an attachment.
Here you have to include it and like your messages are included in your job posting.
But it basically shows that people you sign contracts where you can download it.
That's pretty nice if you use this quite a bit.
Again oDesk is really focused towards having an army of freelancer doing freelancers doing some menial
task.
And it's less focused on having a web developer say I'm going to build this web app for X amount of
money.
It's more like you'll find a web developer says I'll build this app and pay me $50 an hour reporting.
Not particularly helpful if you have a company and you are operating and you do have outsourcing needs
quite a bit.
This can be helpful because they don't keep track of how many hours a week you're paying how many payments
you're giving out each week.
So you kind of keep track of your costs so you can kind of think of this as a way to manage your outsourced
employees and that's kind of the way I think of it.
So if I'm earning a marketing campaign and I need to hire some people to gather e-mail addresses or
something or web sites or find some blogs in my space I'll hire three or four people to go out five
hours a day and I'll track through this how much I'm paying per day in over a week and that's how I
can kind of keep to keep the lid on my costs.